# Comparing-2018-Happiness-Scores-to-Alcohol-Consumption-by-Country

  Our project focuses on alcohol consumption and how it relates to happiness per capita.This repository contains the two raw datasets (Kaggle) we used for this project, and a Juptyer Notebook that walks through our code and statistical tests. The first dataset contains the data regarding alcohol consumption. The values represent alcohol per capita consumption, as consumed per person above 15 years of age annually. The second dataset contains happiness scores for 155 countries based on 6 factors: Absence of corruption, economic production, social support, life expectancy, freedom, and generosity. Prior to any tests, we hypothesized that above average alcohol consumption would be associated with lower happiness scores and vice versa. For our testing, we calculated the mean alcohol consumption in liters based off of the data from all countries in the dataset. We then calculated the average happiness score and got 5 as the mean. To test the relationship between the two means and our null hypothesis, we decided to run a single sample t-test as shown in the Juptyer Notebook. With the test statistic and critical values that we derived from our tests, our null hypothesis was rejected. This indicates that there is no significant correlation between alcohol consumption and happiness. Our results are prone to limitations or biases however. First off, the happiness scores were assigned to each country based off 6 different factors as a representation of the whole population. There is also the potential response bias in both datasets, as alcohol consumption and happiness are two things people could misreport. Despite the limitations of our data and results, we believe that conducting another test with large, reliable datasets could perhaps indicate a relation between alcohol consumption and happiness.
  
  
Project Members:
Soham Deo, Leah Williams, Leanne Jojo, Helen Kang, Maahe Kazmi
